The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
As one call by God to defend the Bible and the Jewish people, I particularly despise efforts to take New Testament verses out of context to condemn Israel and the Jewish people.
During first century persecution twice in the book of Revelation,
The Lord Jesus referred to the synagogue of Satan concerning certain specific adversaries.
Jesus was immersed in synagogue culture as a Jew brought up in the land of Israel.
And according to Luke 4, 16, it was his custom to attend synagogue every Sabbath.
Therefore, his references to the synagogue of Satan were merely in-house rebukes.
However, these rebukes are often twisted by modern anti-Semites to advance anti-Semitism.
In today's Bible prophecy update, we'll unpack these verses to explain why they cannot be used in today's world to abuse Jewish people.
Shalom, I'm Christine Darg.
In today's Bible prophecy update, we're going to tackle four topics.
Today's misuse of the synagogue of Satan passages in the book of Revelation to fan flames of anti-Semitism.
Secondly, I'll discuss two traumas that burden Jewish people in these end times.
A third topic will look at Israel preparing for a future when it may stand increasingly alone.
And my fourth topic will be the preposterous mindset of unbelievers that Jesus will not return and that eventually earthlings will be forced to colonize other planets in order to survive, specifically Mars.
I'd like to start off saying Christians are turning against Israel every day because of influencers in the media.
The synagogue of Satan passages in the book of Revelation
referred to specific Jewish communities in the ancient cities of Smirter and Philadelphia that were persecuting the church.
These passages do not refer to any modern situation.
In her public statements in post, one social media influencer has hurled the synagogue of Satan reference from the book of Revelation against prominent Jewish figures, as well as broader anti-Zionists or anti-Israel rhetoric.
References to the synagogue of Satan are part of Jesus's letters to the churches in the book of Revelation in the New Testament.
These letters were dictated by the risen Lord to the Apostle John around AD 95 during a time when early Christians faced persecution from Rome and also from local Jewish communities.
Therefore, the references to the synagogue of Satan in Revelation 2 9
and chapter three, verse nine, were specific to first-century persecution.
And this should be kept in mind rather than using the phrase out of context as blanket condinations of Jewish people or Judaism.
These verses are part of Jesus' exhortations to the churches in Smyrna and Philadelphia and describe specific groups who say they are Jews and or not, but are of a synagogue of Satan,
First of all, let's look at Revelation 2.9 where Jesus Yeshua says to the church at Smyrna, I know your works, your tribulation and poverty, but you are rich.
And I know the blasphemy of those who say they're Jews and are not, but are of a synagogue of Satan.
This is a message from Jesus acknowledging the suffering in Smyrna and condemning those who slander them.
Bible scholars explain that the reference to the synagogue of Satan is an inner family rebuke by Jesus who, of course, remained a Jew even after his resurrection and he upheld Jewish ethical standards rather than denigrating them.
So you may ask, Christine, how can you prove Jesus remained a Jew after his resurrection and ascension?
Well, Revelation 5.5 describes the risen Lord as the lion of the tribe of Judah.
and Judah means, of course, Jewish.
A second and similar troubling verse we want to unpack is Revelation 3.9, where Jesus addresses the church in Philadelphia.
He said, take note, I will make those from the synagogue of Satan who claim to be Jews but are lying, I will make them bow down at your feet, and they will know that I have loved you.
This is essentially a prophecy of the vindication of faithful followers of Yeshua,
and the recognition of true believers.
The verse speaks of those who falsely claim religious identity, contrasting them with the true followers of Messiah who remain loyal, promising future triumph and acknowledgement of God's love for them.
One interpretation explains that the synagogue of Satan refers not to ethnic Jews, but to Gentile God-fears, non-Jews who associated with synagogues and adopted Jewish customs
and claimed a form of Jewish identity.
These individuals may have slandered the Jewish Christians to maintain their own status under Roman protections for Judaism.
What we must keep in mind is that the book of Revelation was written within a deeply Jewish context by a Jewish author who was the beloved disciple John
So the harsh language referencing synagogue of Satan was part of a fervent internal debate between early followers of Jesus and other factions in the first century and should not be misapplied to vilify Jews today.
In fact, the term synagogue translates from the Greek word sonegogae, which is the origin of the English word synagogue, which simply means assembly or gathering.
So the word actually could refer to any group, not exclusively, to a Jewish house of worship.
To avoid modern misunderstandings, some Bible scholars advocate rendering the wording in Revelation 2.9 and 3.9 as assembly of Satan.
Jesus' reference to slander in Revelation 2.9 is from the Greek root for blasphemy, and that aligns with the meaning of the Hebrew word Satan, which literally means the accuser
or adversary.
Therefore, the assembly of Satan, the accuser, highlighted the adversarial role of individuals who were slandering and opposing God's people in the church.
Therefore, synagogue of Satan was not a timeless label for an entire ethnic group or religion, but it was merely a description of persecution and slander by individuals.
So again, please be aware that these verses in the book of Revelation refer to specific individuals, not all Jews, and brothers will argue with brothers.
These verses were not meant to be a condemnation of the entire Jewish people across time.
We must not allow these texts to be abused, such as labeling Jews today as a synagogue of Satan or claiming modern Jewish people are imposters.
To counter antisemitic misuse,
We even general commentators dress that the phrase synagogue or assembly of Satan applies only to those particular first century individuals in Smyrna and Philadelphia who were persecuting the church.
The phrase must not be a label used broadly against Jews in contemporary situations.
So never forget the context of the Hebraic roots of Christianity, the author of the book of Revelation, the beloved disciple John,
was Jewish, as were of course Jesus and all the apostles.
In fact, we must continually point out that in the New Testament, John 4, 22, affirms from the mouth of Jesus that salvation proceeds from the Jews.
Moreover, the apostle Paul, Rabbi Paul, Rabbi Sha'ul tells us in Romans 11
that believers have salvation, but only because we are grafted into the Hebraic olive tree of God.
What this means is that all Christians are by nature Judeo-Christians because of our biblical roots.
That's just an inescapable fact that I'd like to tell all replacement theologians and professing Christians who are making anti-Semitic statements.
All Bible-believing Christians must make great efforts to affirm guys enduring covenants with Israel as promised in Jeremiah 31 in Romans 11.
Biblically, we have to view the Church as grafted into Israel's promises, not supplanting them.
In our day and age, we must prevent weaponizing scriptures such as Revelation 2, 9 and 3, 9 against Jewish people.
promoting instead Christian support for Israel in opposition to anti-Semitism as we are biblically mandated.
I repeat contentious verses in the book of Revelation were historic rebukes of specific persecutors, not a justification for modern anti-Semitism.
We must always be willing to detect and reject blanket condemnations of the Jewish people.
as believers in Messiah, it's our duty to learn how to be sensitive to and to support our elders in the faith the Jewish people.
Yet at this prophetic time anti-Semitism is increasing exponentially.
Can you name a single thing that happened before the Holocaust that has not happened today?
Windows of Jewish establishments are being shattered, synagogues are being vandalized, Jews are being harassed on campuses,
and assaulted in the streets.
Openly anti-Semitic politicians are gaining power.
Jewish and Israeli businesses are being boycotted.
We evangelical Bible believers must take note of these two deep traumas, which is my second topic in this prophecy update today.
The two traumas each carry immense burdens for the believer Jewish people.
The first trauma stems from events that have already unfolded, such as the Holocaust.
many Jews and Israelis have been raised among Holocaust survivors, individuals who were persecuted with numbers etched permanently into their skin.
These tattoos are not distant relics of history, but lingering shadows of the suffering.
Later in life while in New York City, Rabbi Josh witnessed the Twin Towers collapse on September 11.
He also experienced the aftermath of the July 7 bombings in London
and he has served in combat zones, responded to natural disasters and attended scenes of terror attacks.
Furthermore, following the atrocities by Hamas of October 7 in Israel, Rabbi Josh Wander, devastated Kibbutzim, confronting evil unmasked.
Months of emergency duties followed, involving the identification of thousands of bodies.
Certain sights, odors, and details still cling to his mind.
All of this constitutes the first trauma, the burden of memory of wounds inflicted by past antisemitic events.
Yet he said that collective trauma diminishes compared to the second trauma, which is a dread of further antisemitic acts in the future.
The second burden is for seeing the impending peril
while many Jewish people seem oblivious to the dangers.
It's like he envisions an enormous inexorable train named exile, thundering forward uncontrollably, seemingly unaware Jews stand on the tracks composed at ease, absorbed in daily affairs, assured that the train will somehow halt, decelerate, derail, or be diverted.
He cries.
He pleads with his fellow Jews.
Please move from the tracks.
You don't understand the approaching danger.
You're risking eternal loss.
However, the prevailing response is indifference, skepticism, courteous dismissal, or assured nonchalance.
They say things to him like you're overstating the case.
We're safe here in the diaspora, far from the Holy Land.
Times have always been difficult and history no longer repeats itself and so forth.
Those reactions wound more deeply than any conflict of the past.
His fellow Jews' refusal to heed his warnings are a deep, ongoing second trauma.
The Jews in the diaspora have ears, yet remain deaf to repeated cautions.
In circle by rising hatred and violence, they detect no warning signals until it's too late.
Even amid attacks, murders, and glaring omens, urgency often eludes them.
departure for the Holy Land demands upheaval, it demands sacrifice and change.
The Hebrew prophets in the Bible were also disregarded, not for lack of proof, but because their words were simply inconvenient.
The parallels today feel starkly familiar.
Somehow many visionary Jews are enduring these dual traumas.
One trauma was forged in the past by anti-Semitism and the Holocaust
The other trauma is shaped by the dread of Jacob's trouble in the future.
The trauma of the past concerns irrevocable lost.
The second burden involves loss that still could be averted, yet is probably inevitable.
Rabbi Wanda prays and continues to warn and alert his fellow Jews.
He keeps imploring them to come home.
And this brings me to my third topic today in this Bible prophecy update.
And that's the increasing isolation of the nation of Israel and how this isolation was indeed predicted in Bible prophecy.
Israel is preparing for a future where it may stand increasingly alone as stated in this prophecy news watch article.
The USA has been Israel's closest ally.
However, on the American right, a growing faction of conservatives now questions the necessity of continued aid to Israel.
Prominent figures such as Senator Rand Paul argue that Israel is a wealthy, technologically advanced nation, fully capable of defending itself.
For many politicians and pundits, the Israel is not overt hostility toward Israel.
Rather, their hesitancy to support Israel involves fiscal restraint and resistance to endless foreign entanglements.
At the same time, Israel has reached a similar conclusion
Over the past two years of war, Israeli leaders have learned a sobering lesson.
Aid is never free.
Assistance comes with strings attached, expectation, pressure, and sometimes manipulation.
During the Biden administration, deliveries of weapons became political tools.
Slowed or scrutinized amid disagreements over Gaza and broader regional strategy.
Even when aid ultimately arrived, the message was unmistakable.
Support could be conditional, delayed, or leveraged.
This reality has pushed Israel toward an historic pivot.
Prime Minister Netanyahu recently announced a sweeping decade-long plan to invest more than $100 billion into building an independent Israeli munitions and defense manufacturing base.
The state of goal is clear.
Reduce reliance on all external suppliers, including friends like the United States.
Israel is accelerating domestic production of ammunition, weapons systems, and strategic materials.
This is not a symbolic gesture.
It's a declaration of intent.
It doesn't mean abandoning the alliance with the USA.
Israeli officials have floated the idea of partnerships rather than patronage, replacing traditional aid with joint defense
initiatives.
This would bring about cooperation without control, collaboration without conditions, but make no mistake, the era of unquestioned reliance is ending.
For students of biblical prophecy, this development raises a striking question.
Where is America in the end times?
The USA, despite its global power, is notably absent from last day's scripture.
But nations like Persia, which is modern-day Iran and others, are named.
Israel stands, of course, at the center.
In Ezekiel 38, Israel faces invasion, largely alone.
And it's God himself who intervenes to protect Israel.
No superpower ally comes riding to the rescue.
For decades, many wondered how that scenario could ever align with a world dominated by American influence.
Perhaps we're beginning to see how.
As America grows more divided, more inward focus, support for Israel is no longer guaranteed.
Presently, President Trump is pro-Israel, but a future administration may have little appetite for defending Israel diplomatically or militarily.
Israel is wisely preparing for this possibility.
It's just plain prudence.
Israel is a nation forged in survival, recognizing that in the most critical moments of history,
alliances can falter, treaties can weaken, public opinion can shift overnight.
Only God and national resolve remain.
Amen.
Now, a fourth topic I want to tackle in this Bible prophecy update is the delusion that mankind will have to colonize Mars out of necessity to survive.
This mindset totally dismisses or ignores the reality of the imminent return of the Lord Jesus
to rule and reform this planet for a thousand years.
That's known in theological parlance as the Millennium.
The Millennium is the prophesied thousand-year reign of Messiah on Earth as described in the book of Revelation.
Billionaire Elon Musk, founder of SpaceX, has long championed the idea of making humanity a multi-planetary species.
And Mars is his primary target.
Musk's vision is driven by the belief that establishing a self-sustaining civilization on another planet is essential for the long-term survival of human consciousness.
Musk argues that Earth faces nuclear war, climate catastrophe, or the Sun's eventual expansion.
His ultimate goal is a self-sustaining city on Mars with inhabitants capable of surviving independently, even if Earth's supply ships stop arriving.
It's been proven that temporary robotic missions to Mars are achievable, but permanent human settlements are not.
Oh, how I wish somebody would teach Elon Musk and others like him about eschatology, which is the biblical study of the End Times.
You see, the world is not going to continue indefinitely like Star Trek and science fiction teaches.
According to biblical eschatology, particularly
Revelation, chapters 20 and 21, Jesus will return at his second coming to defeat evil forces to bind Satan and establish a literal thousand-year reign on earth known as the Millennium during which he will rule with resurrected saints in peace and righteousness.
At the end of the Millennium, Satan will be released briefly for a final rebellion
But God will swiftly defeat Satan, followed by the final judgment of the wicked and the creation of a new heaven and a new earth, where God dwells eternally with his redeemed people in perfect restoration.
That's the truth of Scripture.
So we won't need to colonize Mars.
The cornerstone of Musk's plan is Starship, the world's largest and most powerful fully reusable rocket system.
Designed to carry 100 to 200 people in massive cargo payloads, Starship is the first rocket in history capable of making multi-planetary life feasible according to Musk.
He envisions a self-sustaining city on Mars within 20 to 30 years.
He acknowledges the immense difficulty such as radiation, low gravity, resource extraction, and psychological isolation.
But as a visionary, he views all of these obstacles as problems to be solved.
However, many scientists insist that Earthlings going to Mars and actually living on Mars remains science fiction fantasy.
For example, British physicist Brian Cox explains why sending humans to Mars may be physically impossible.
Not because of money or ambition,
But because of the fundamental limits of physics, distance, radiation, gravity, and human biology, physics, not optimism, sets the ultimate limits.
Mars has long been presented as humanity's next great destination.
But when you calculate those distances, energy requirements, radiation exposure, communication delays, and the limits of the human body, an unrealistic reality emerges.
Going to Mars may be physically impossible because radiation in deep space threatens human survival.
If you listen to a scientist walk through the cold, unforgiving physics behind interplanetary travel, you realize why Mars is not just difficult.
It's fundamentally hostile to human life.
It's plain physics.
A physicist can easily dismantle the feasibility of establishing a permanent human presence on the red planet
Mars is not just difficult but fundamentally impossible to colonize due to insurmountable barriers rooted in physics, astronomy, biology, and logistics.
These obstacles are not mere engineering hurdles that can be overcome with time and innovation.
Indeed, these obstacles stem from the unchangeable laws of the universe and the fragility of human physiology.
Mars is a dead world, hostile in every conceivable way.
If you believe in the second coming of Jesus to rescue this planet, then going to Mars might be intellectually intriguing, yet it's nevertheless a delusional fantasy.
We also have to consider the deceptive nature of Mars' seeming proximity.
Mars appears as a bright, inviting point in the sky, but the reality is starkly different.
At its farthest distance, the gap between Earth and Mars widens to over 400 million kilometers.
To reach Mars using as little fuel as possible, spacecraft follow a curved path around the sun.
This path saves energy, but the trip takes about seven months one way.
It's not a straight-fast dash.
Compounding the physical distance is the physiological and psychological toll.
As the spacecraft hurdles away, Earth diminishes from a vibrant blue marble to a faint star-like point, evoking a sense of profound aloneness that no Earth-bound simulation can replicate.
Simulated space missions like those in Antarctica or underwater habitats offer an escape hatch, but there is no escape hatch for real isolation in deep space.
Radiation emerges as one of the most lethal threats
Earth's magnetic field and thick atmosphere shield us from cosmic dangers, but in deep space travelers are exposed to solar wind, streams of protons and electrons from solar flares that can deliver fatal doses in hours, causing acute radiation sickness, organ failure, and death.
Even more insidious or a galactic cosmic rays, high energy particles from distant supernova that penetrate spacecraft walls,
shattering DNA strands and leading to chronic issues like cancer and cognitive impairment.
Over a 14-month round trip, the cumulative exposure would be equivalent to dozens of CT scans daily with no effective countermeasures.
No amount of current technology can fully mitigate this.
Gravity is another huge problem.
Mars has only about 38% of Earth's gravity.
This low gravity would cause serious harm to the human body over time, and we still don't fully understand all the effects.
For example, bones would de-mineralize, muscles atrophy, hearts deform, vision would be impaired due to fluid shifts, and the immune system weaken, increasing risks of infection.
Human reproduction, the key to true colonization, would be impossible on Mars.
fetal development relies on gravitational cues.
Without them, organs might form incorrectly, leading to non-viable offspring.
Any colony would be a sterile outpost, reliant on continuous immigration from Earth.
It could not be a self-sustaining society.
Let's face the fact that human beings are biologically tethered to Earth, to its gravity and biosphere.
diverting trillions of dollars to Mars ignores pressing terrestrial issues and denies the reality of the imminent second coming of the Lord.
Mars teaches us humility and the stark reality that God designed human beings to live on earth.
Rather than looking to Mars and to the stars for our future, we should be looking to the soon appearing of the Lord Jesus.
So to sum up our times, Titus 2, 13 reminds us
that evangelical Bible believers are waiting for our blessed hope.
The sudden appearing of our great God is Savior Jesus, Yeshua the Messiah.
Do you know there are over 4,000 religions in this world, but there's only one empty tomb.
There's only one man who conquered sand, death and hell forever.
And that's our Savior Jesus, Yeshua, Hamashiah.
So no matter how chaotic and dangerous the world appears to be, the question is,
Are you ready for the soon and sudden appearing of the Lord to be ready?
The gospel is very clear.
Jesus didn't say, I am a way to God.
He said emphatically, I am the way.
So I urge you to believe on the Lord Jesus the Messiah and the Bible promises you shall be saved.
Amen.
Meanwhile, we'd love to hear from you on the various social media or through our free Jerusalem channel mobile app.
Please follow all my articles at substack.com and all our videos at our website, exploits.tv and our Jerusalem channel, YouTube platform.
Finally, we invite you to sign up for our weekly email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132 declaring the people who know their God will be strong, not weak, and will accomplish biblical exploits.
The works of the Lord in the remaining time before His imminent return.
Let's keep contending for the faith and praying prophetically for the peace of Jerusalem.
I'm Christine Dark, Shalom and Maranatha.